# Time-Table-Scheduling-using-Genetic-Algorithm
One of the most challenging task for every college, school, and company administrator is to create an efficient timetable every year or every semester. The herculean task encompasses a huge amount of time and staff involvement. Moreover, a minute mistake will lead to re-planning of the entire timetable. In the present project, I have tried to resolve this problem to a considerable extent so as to save precious man hours. Switching to a digital way of scheduling a time table will result in the automation of workflow. The algorithm is capable of generating timetables automatically while ensuring that no class overlap with each other. It help align proper schedules and allot faculty by mapping the classes, subjects, and teachers details into the system. I have implemented it using Genetic Algorithms. Genetic Algorithm is a search-based optimization technique based on the principles of Genetics and Natural Selection. It is frequently used to find optimal or near-optimal solutions to difficult problems (NP Hard Problems) that wise would take a lifetime to solve. The nature-inspired algorithms depend on their convergence rate and convergence rate depends on the fitness function and algorithmic parameters. Therefore, considering the above arguments and referring several research papers, we have finalised to go with the Genetic algorithm for given project. However, Population-based algorithms like Genetic Algorithm tend to be time-consuming. GAs have more problems to deal with constraints. Often hybrid approaches outperform specific meta-heuristics. I have implemented a combination of Heuristics and Genetic Algorithms in this project.
